## Metis Data
A Database Guardrails Platform

You can use the [editor on GitHub](https://github.com/metis-data/metis-data.github.io/edit/main/README.md) to maintain and preview the content for your website in Markdown files.



### Analyze SQL Queries
Deep insights into Postgres and MySQL 

- **Execution Plan Insights**: Easily analyze SQL queries and their execution plans using built-in insights. 
- **Simple and Intuitive visualization of the EXPLAIN output**. We used PEV2, the best open source UI component for Execution Plan visualization. Instead of manually copy-pasting the plan into their site,  [explain.dalibo.com](https://explain.dalibo.com/), the visualization  is integrated with the VS Code. 
- **Analysis of the table’s schema** to see which indexes were not used. Quickly detect table scans and WHY none of the existing indexes was used
- Get **deep insights**, enriched by the metadata from the production.
- **General analysis of the tables and indexes**, not in the context of a specific query. 

### App Logs Instrumentation
- Log and link the calling REST API to its related  SQL commands
- Analyze batch of log records
- Easy integration with the development lifecycle. For ex. Analyzing all the SQL commands generated by a specific Pull Request 

Easy instrumentation, just 2 lines of code. Starting with Python [SQLAlchemy](https://pypi.org/project/sqlalchemycollector/) . 
Built-in integration with other ORM Log Collectors such as [Django Silk](https://github.com/jazzband/django-silk). Silk logs the SQL Commands to the DB. Simply configure Metis to use that DB, we are familiar with the tables created by Silk and how to use them.  



